# Consumer Prices, Food Indices (2015 = 100)

> Consumer Prices, Food Indices

## Identification

- **idno**: `FAO_CP_23013`
- **database_id**: `FAO_CP`
- **database**: Consumer Price Indices
- **periodicity**: Monthly
- **unit**: Index
- **confidentiality**: PU

## License

- **name**: CC BY 4.0
- **uri**: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

## Links

- **csv**: https://data360files.worldbank.org/data360-data/data/FAO_CP/FAO_CP_23013.csv
- **json metadata**: https://data360files.worldbank.org/data360-data/metadata/FAO_CP/FAO_CP_23013.json
- **api template**: https://data360api.worldbank.org/data360/data?top=1000&skip=0&DATABASE_ID=FAO_CP&INDICATOR=FAO_CP_23013
- **dataset on Data360**: https://data360.worldbank.org/en/int/dataset/FAO_CP

## Definition

The FAOSTAT monthly Food CPI and General CPI database was based on the ILO CPI data until December 2014.

## Methodology

In 2014, IMF-ILO-FAO agreed to transfer global CPI data compilation from ILO to IMF. Upon agreement, CPIs for all items and its sub components originates from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the UN Statistics Division(UNSD) for countries not covered by the IMF. However, due to a limited time coverage from IMF and UNSD for a number of countries, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Central Bank of Western African States (BCEAO), Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB), UNdata, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and national statistical office website data are used for missing historical data from IMF and UNSD food CPI. The FAO CPI dataset for all items(or general CPI) and the Food CPI, consists of a complete and consistent set of time series from January 2000 onwards. Data gaps on monthly Food CPI and General CPI are filled using statistical estimation procedures to have full data coverage for all countries for Food CPI and for General CPI. These indices measure the price change between the current and reference periods of the average basket of goods and services purchased by households. The CPI,all items is typically used to measure and monitor inflation, set monetary policy targets, index social benefits such as pensions and unemployment benefits, and to escalate thresholds and credits in the income tax systems and wages in public and private wage contracts. The FAOSTAT monthly Food CPI inflation rates are annual year-over-year inflation or percentage change over corresponding month of the previous year. The FAOSTAT regional Food CPI and CPI of General are weighted average of Food CPI and General CPI of countries in each region using the weights of HouseHold Final Consumption Expenditure in USD in 2015 from UNSD.

## Sources

- Consumer Price Indices (FAO) (https://www.fao.org)

## Topics

- Planet _(WB Practice Groups)_
- Agriculture and Food _(Data360 Topic L1)_
- Food and Nutrition Security _(Data360 Topic L2)_
